Süsstrunk, R., Huber, S.D., 2015. Observation of phononic helical edge states in a mechanical topological insulator. Science 349, 47–50. doi:10.1126/science.aab0239
arXiv:1503.06808

Süsstrunk and Huber report on constructing a toy 2D mechanical topological insulator modelled on the Quantum Spin Hall Effect. They start from a QSHE Hamiltonian which they transform into a real, symmetric and positive definite tensor which they reinterpret as a dynamical matrix of a system of (x,y) displacements of points on a 2D lattice. They build a mechanical model of this system using pairs of 1D pendula interconnected by springs to emulate the (x,y) coordinates, and confirm the emergence of stable helical edge states analogous to those in the QSHE.

The paper is entirely based on the idea that the concepts of topologically protected states familiar from topological electronic insulators can be applied to phononic systems, an idea which was discussed in the latter half of this week's materials. However, the approach is a new one: they start with a Hamiltonian that has properties they would like to realize analogies of, only to transform it until it can be reinterpreted as describing the kind of system  they'd like to build.

The analysis of the observed edge states, centred around figures 2 and 4, is quite thorough, and the justification that they are topologically protected states rather than "whispering gallery modes" (mostly figure 4) is plausible. However, the entire analysis is based on an interpretation of the (x,y) coordinates as a 2D displacement, which makes it convenient to define notions like circular polarizations. This may not be entirely unreasonable, but considering that the x and y pedula in the model move along the same axis, it is supremely contrived. The authors consider the effects of damping and nonlinearities in their system (figure 3 and SI) and can rightly conclude that they are small enough as not to matter, but then turn to making a sweeping generalization about robustness to disorder near the end of the paper which strikes me as entirely unjustified. 

All in all, the authors present an interesting proof-of-concept mechanical system which possesses some striking apparently topological properties in direct analogy with well-knows electronic systems, but it suffers slightly from the nonchalant nature of some analogies made.
