Lutchyn, Roman M., Tudor D. Stanescu, and S. Das Sarma. “Search for Majorana Fermions in Multiband Semiconducting Nanowires.” Physical Review Letters 106, no. 12 (March 21, 2011): 127001. 
DOI:10.1103/PhysRevLett.106.127001
arXiv:1008.0629

In this paper, Lutchyn et al. consider a model of a narrow 2D semiconducting quantum
well proximity-coupled to an s-wave superconductor and examine the possibility
of Majorana states in this system. The parameters are chosen to be relevant to
existing fabrication techniques and allow multiple occupied quasi-1D subbands, 
in contrast to simpler pure 1D models. They find a régime for a certain range of
Zeeman energies where Majorana modes are possible for a wide range of chemical
potentials and conclude that a real system tuned to this "sweet spot" should support
a topological state resistant to experimental fluctuations.

The centrepiece of the paper is clearly the phase space diagram in Figure 2(a),
but perhaps the most interesting aspect relative to what is discussed in the course
so far is the discussion of the robustness of the "sweet spot". The authors focus 
on the effect of temperature fluctuations on the chemical potential in the nanowire,
which may plausibly be one of the most important considerations. They point out that
their "sweet spot" strongly depends on the properties of the superconductor and its
coupling to the nanowire, but conveniently gloss over any and all sources of variation
or uncertainty in these factors. The discussion of impurities was welcome and
interesting, but almost read like a bit of an afterthought.

The paper shines in that it discusses a model designed to be close to a system known
to be possible to fabricate and in that it gives a fairly concrete and plausible 
recommendation as to how to create an observable topological Majorana state in the face
of experimental limitations. However, the discussion of possible experimental fluctuations
and especially impurities seems rather half-hearted at times. 
