Cooper, N.R., Moessner, R., 2012. Designing Topological Bands in Reciprocal Space. Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 215302. 
DOI:10.1103/PhysRevLett.109.215302
arXiv:1208.4579

Optical flux lattices are a quantum optical experimental technique that permits subjecting ultra-cold atoms to an artificial optical field with a nonzero average magnetic flux density which leads to Landau-level-like constraints. Cooper & Moessner examine a description of such states in an effort to allow tailoring of the fields to tune the topological properties of the system. Faced with the fact that the corresponding solid-state theory favours tight-binding models and optical flux lattices "can operate far from the tight-binding limit", they move into reciprocal space, where they find they can describe the deep lattice régime as an equivalent tight binding model in reciprocal space. While a traditional solid-state tight-binding allows only weak hopping between unit cells in real space, the reciprocal tight-binding model allows only weak coupling between neighbouring Brillouin zones.

In a refreshing but unsettling twist, the reciprocal equivalent of the Berry curvature ends up being defined in such a way as to make the Chern number in the reciprocal tight-binding model equal to the number of magnetic flux quanta through the real-space unit cell. The similarity between Berry's treatment and EM has come full circle, it seams. This leads the authors to desire an optical flux lattice with as close to uniform magnetic flux density as possible (to have a well-defined uniform Chern number, which gives rise to desirable properties?), and to propose a geometry in which to achieve this. 

Their main requirement of the proposed triangular optical flux lattice, beyond the usual, is a large number of atoms. They make sufficient references to proposed not-quite-large-enough experimental configurations to make the idea that experiments are moving in the right direction, but ultimately, the demand for a large number of individually controlled ultra-cold atoms may just be the proposal's downfall. (or not!) Is doing condensed matter physics with a handful of individual atoms even reasonable?

